As Dominic Toretto is being transported to prison by bus, his sister Mia Toretto
and friend Brian O'Conner lead an assault on
the bus, freeing Dom. While the authorities
search for them, the trio escapes to Rio de
Janeiro. Awaiting Dom's arrival, Mia and Brian
join their friend Vince and other participants
on a job to steal three cars from a train. Brian
and Mia discover that agents from the U.S. Drug
Enforcement Administration (DEA) are also on the
train and that the cars are seized property. When
Dom arrives at the train with his accomplices,
he realizes that their leader Zizi is only
interested in stealing one car; a Ford GT40. Dom
has Mia steal the car herself before he and Brian
fight Zizi and his henchmen, during which Zizi
kills the DEA agents assigned to the vehicles.
Dom and Brian are captured and brought to crime
lord Hernan Reyes, the owner of the cars and
Zizi's boss. Reyes orders the pair interrogated
to discover the location of the car, but they
manage to escape and retreat to their safehouse.
While Brian, Dom, and Mia examine
the car to discover its importance,
Vince arrives and is caught trying to remove a
computer chip from it. He admits he was planning
to sell the chip to Reyes on his own, and Dom
forces him to leave. Brian investigates the
chip and discovers it contains the complete
financial details of Reyes' criminal empire,
including the locations of US$100 million in cash.
Diplomatic Security Service agent Luke Hobbs
and his team arrive in Rio to arrest Dom and
Brian. With the help of local officer Elena Neves,
they travel to Dom's safehouse, but
find it under assault by Reyes' men,
searching for the chip. Brian, Dom and Mia escape.
Dom suggests they split up and leave Rio, but Mia
announces she is pregnant with Brian's child.
Dom agrees to stick together and suggests they
steal the money from Reyes to start a new life.
They organize a team to perform the heist which includes Han,
Roman, Tej, Gisele, Leo, and Santos. Vince
later joins the team after saving Mia from
being captured by Reyes' men. Since it would be
difficult to steal from 10 different locations,
Dom's team attack one of those locations and
burn $10 million in front of Reyes's staff.
Afraid of further attacks, Reyes
consolidates the remaining $90 million
in a new vault inside a police station. Dom'steam buys cars and equipment,
and creates a plan to steal the money.
Hobbs and his team eventually find and arrest Dom,
Mia, Brian, and Vince. While transporting them to
the airport for extradition to the United States,
the convoy is attacked by Reyes' men, who kill
Hobbs' team. Hobbs and Elena are saved by Dom,
Brian, Mia, and Vince, who escape the
assault, but Vince is fatally shot.
Wanting to avenge his murdered team, Hobbs and
Elena agree to help with the heist. The gang break
into the police station and tear the vault holding
Reyes' money from the building using their cars,
dragging it through the city. After an extensive
police chase, Dom has Brian continue on without him
while he attacks the police and the pursuing
Reyes, using the vault attached to his car to
smash their vehicles. Brian returns and kills Zizi
while Reyes is badly injured by Dom's assault.
Hobbs arrives on the scene and executes Reyes.
Though Hobbs refuses to let Dom and Brian go free,
he gives them a 24-hour head start to escape
on the condition that they leave the vault as
it is. However, the vault is empty, as it had
been switched during the chase. After splitting
the cash, Dom's team go their separate ways. On a
tropical beach, Brian challenges Dom to a final,
no-stakes race to prove who is the better driver.
In a mid-credits scene, Hobbs is given a
file by Monica Fuentes concerning the
hijack of a military convoy in Berlin,
where he discovers a recent photo of Dom's former
girlfriend Letty, who had been presumed dead.